So our query keeps getting better and better
but now we have to think about the columns we actually want to have in that query.
So let's select one of the columns first by clicking onto the column name
and now we can navigate through the columns by using the left and right keys on the keyboard,
so this is quite comfortable.
So which columns do we need and which columns could be deleted?
So the first three, location ID, location and time are fine,
age group seems to be good but age groups start and age groups span,
I don't think we need those columns right because the age group already defines the criteria right here,
so we don't need that additional information. Now to delete that column,
you again have multiple options of course,
let me show you some of them.
So the most intuitive thing you might do is you might go to the home ribbon and then simply go to the
managed columns area and then press remove columns
and if you press that in the lower area again, you'll see that a menu opens,
so you can remove the columns which would probably remove that column you selected and remove other
columns.
Now what is that remove other columns?
Let's simply click that and see what happens.
As you can see the only column that remains is the column that we selected,
so other simply means remove unselected columns.
Now we don't need the functionality right here but this might be a big help if you have lots of columns
and if you want to keep some of them only. Now that we know that, we have to undo it right because we
want to get rid of that column and we don't and keep that column.
So again let's go to applied steps, press the x
and here we are
but we are not selecting the column that we actually want to delete, right? Now
I know, the code simply selected right here,
that's easy
but again imagine that you have more data and more columns and that you want to select a column that's
far to the left at the moment,
then there is a really comfortable way on how you can define which column you want to select.
So I'm again in the home ribbon
and if we go to manage columns and now to choose columns and select that again in the lower area of the
button, we see that we have two options, choose columns
again, we'll come back to that in a few seconds and go to column.
Now let's go to column and we see that we can now select the column that we want to select.
Now this is a great function
and as we wanted to delete age group start, let's simply press that and press OK
and now we see that Power BI desktop automatically jumps to the column we selected. Now that we selected
the right column,
let's go to remove columns in the home ribbon, press that
and now we don't press remove other,
we want to remove that column.
Let's do this
and you see the column is gone.
If you deleted the wrong column, just remember applied step and undo that step,
always possible.
Now we also want to delete that age group span
and yes, we could simply remove it now
but there is also another option if you might want to delete more columns.
So we are still in the home ribbon and press now choose columns and now press choose columns a second time.
In this view
now, you can see all of the columns you have in that selected query
and if you unselect the columns that you don't want that keep, then those columns will be automatically
deleted
and this is exactly what we want.
So let's press OK
and you see that the selected column or the unselected column in that case is deleted.
So we now cleaned our columns
but what I still don't like is the column name of most of the columns,
let's also change that as we are already working on the columns, right.
So let's go to the first column and now you can either right-click and press rename or you can double-
click it and now change the name.
So let's call that country ID
because it's a location
but I think country is more precise and press enter,
let's also change location to country, time is not the right column, right,
this should be something like year, age group maybe let's make it age group,
so the real name, pop male, I would say let's call it population male,
right,
to be more precise again again. Same thing is true for the female population,
like this
and now we navigate to the last column and change that to population total, like this.
So we got that,
we are now basically done with our first general cleaning of the columns and the definition of the column
names
but if I look into that age group column, I see things that I don't like.
Let's see what we can do about that in the next video.